<h1 align="center">Linux File System 📂</h1>
<hr>
### Linux File system VS Windows File system

The Linux file system is a hierarchical system, it is just like a tree structure a shown below

```markdown
root
	├── home
	│   ├── user1
	│   │   ├── Documents
	│   │   └── Pictures
	│   └── user2
	│       ├── Documents
	│       └── Music
	├── var
	│   ├── log
	│   └── www
	└── etc
	    ├── config
	    └── ssh

```

While in windows, there are multiple root folders. It was from older times when floppy disks were used each folder were assigned to separate disks, and they were named based on alphabets like :, B:  etc

The letters A: and B: were given to the removable disk and when hard drives were added the value C: is given to it. And it stayed the same to this day.

### Linux file system Overview 

So let's go ahead and cover the folders inside the root folder 
>To visit your root folder on Ubuntu, Files ⇾ other locations ⇾ computer


```markdown
├── bin           -> usr/bin
├── boot
├── cdrom
├── dev
├── etc
├── home
├── lib           -> usr/lib
│   ├── lib32     -> usr/lib32
│   ├── lib64     -> usr/lib64
│   └── libx32    -> usr/libx32
├── lost+found
├── media
├── mnt
├── opt
├── proc
├── root
├── run
├── sbin          -> usr/sbin
├── snap
├── srv
├── sys
├── tmp
├── usr
└── var

```

#### /Home 📂
Every user will their own space for files in the home directory. So in the root directory there will be a folder home which contains all the user's separate home folders. 

#### /bin 📂

Stands for binaries. Contains the most basic commands available in Linux , such as cp, cat etc. These all commands are in the binary files so that the system understands it. 

#### sbin 📂

System Binaries. Other type of commands which need superuser permission to execute. These are commands like 'Change password'

#### /lib 📂

Library folders, which hold libraries for the commands.

#### /usr 📂

Stands for user, these were the folder for the user before the home folder was introduced. So when we look into this folder there are many folders including the bin folder also. IT holds commands similar to the /bin folder. These are due to the historic reasons, back in the days when the Unix was developing due to storage limitations the directory was split into root binary folders and user binary folders. Now it doesn't make any sense.

The third party applications which we install will go to <code>/usr/local </code>folder. Local folder also contains many subfolders, so the different parts of the installing application will go to different place, like documentation will go to one folder, libraries will go to another etc.

#### /opt 📂

Stores third party applications which we installed as user. So what is the difference between these <code>opt</code> and <code>usr</code> folder ? 
So there are some applications which will not split its components and store it in different places like we said above, they store it in one single directory. In examples, most of the IDE which we use.

#### /boot 📂

For booting the system. 

#### /etc. 📂

Et cetera, folder to store configuration settings and files.

#### /dev 📂

Stands for devices. The devices which we connected to our system will be here, like keyboard, mouse.

#### /var 📂

Contains files to which the system writes to during the course of its operation, like cache.

#### /tmp 📂

To temporarily store data when some process is being executed in the background.

#### /media 📂

Contains subdirectories, where removable media devices inserted into the computer are mounted, E.g. when you insert a CD. A directory will automatically be created, and you can access the contents of the CD inside the directory
### /mnt 📂

Historically, sysadmins mounted temporary file systems there.


### Hidden files 

Hidden files, also known as dot files in UNIX systems, are files that have filenames starting with a dot (.) character. They're primarily used to prevent accidental deletion of important data and are automatically generated by programs or the operating system. These files are hidden from view by default in file browsers or directory listings to maintain a cleaner and less cluttered display. In UNIX systems, appending a dot before a folder or file name effectively hides it from normal view, keeping the directory structure cleaner and preventing accidental modifications to critical system files.